New tutorial content "Kythera City Level Overview" (#736)
o3de/o3de.org: content/docs/learning-guide/tutorials/ai/kythera-city-level-overview.md

---
linkTitle: Kythera City Level Overview
title: Kythera City Level Overview
description: Overview of the AI demo level "Kythera City"
weight: 100
---

![A ship navigates Kythera City in 3D](/images/learning-guide/tutorials/ai/kythera-city-ship.png)

> The `KytheraCity` level demonstrates simple examples of setup for several Kythera AI features, in the Open3D (developers preview) build of the Kythera AI gem.
> 
> The Kythera AI gem features demonstrated in this level are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `KytheraCity` level demonstrates basic setup examples for several features of the **Kythera AI** Gem in **Open 3D Engine (O3DE)** [Developer Preview]. These features include:
```
A few recommended edits:
* To minimize redundancy, combine "Kythera AI features" and "the Kythera AI Gem" into a single reference to "Kythera AI."
* Per our [terminology guidelines](https://docs.o3de.org/docs/contributing/to-docs/terminology/):
  * "Use 'Open 3D Engine (O3DE)' in bold for the first on-page reference."
    * For consistency with the [Download page](https://o3de.org/download/), use "[Developer Preview]" for this release.
  * "'Gem' is a proper noun and must be capitalized."
  * Minor edits for flow. Consider using "basic" instead of "simple", which can feel condescending to a reader who might find it difficult.
* For brevity, combine the features list intro sentence with the first sentence, then shorten it, as in the suggested rewrite.

> *   [2D Navmesh generation](/docs/user-guide/gems/reference/kythera-ai/navmesh-generation) and customizability

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*   [2D navmesh generation](/docs/user-guide/gems/reference/kythera-ai/navmesh-generation) and customizability
```
For capitalization consistency with most occurrences of "navmesh" in the linked article, I recommend making "Navmesh" lower case here, too.

> *   [3D Octree generation](/docs/user-guide/gems/reference/kythera-ai/octree-generation) and customizability

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*   [3D octree generation](/docs/user-guide/gems/reference/kythera-ai/octree-generation) and customizability
```
Lower case "octree", as it's not a proper noun

> *   [Kythera Inspector](/docs/user-guide/gems/reference/kythera-ai/introduction-to-the-inspector) [behavior trees](/docs/user-guide/gems/reference/kythera-ai/behavior-tree-editor)
> *   [Kythera Inspector Tool](/docs/user-guide/gems/reference/kythera-ai/introduction-to-the-inspector) debug draw

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The [**Inspector**](/docs/user-guide/gems/reference/kythera-ai/introduction-to-the-inspector) tool, which includes:
    * [Behavior tree editing](/docs/user-guide/gems/reference/kythera-ai/behavior-tree-editor)
    * Debug drawing
```
To avoid stacking two links to the same 'Inspector' topic, consider combining the two items into one and nesting the two sub-features, like so.

> *   2D Pathfinding
> *   3D Pathfinding

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*   2D pathfinding
*   3D pathfinding
```
* Make "Pathfinding" lower case, as its not a proper noun.

> *   [3D splines](/docs/user-guide/gems/reference/kythera-ai/navigation-splines) and orientation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*   [3D splines](/docs/user-guide/gems/reference/kythera-ai/navigation-splines-tool) and orientation
```
Broken link fix

    *   `kyt_drawmaster 1`
    *   `kyt_drawnavoctree 2`

![Enabling octree debug draw in the O3DE console](/images/learning-guide/tutorials/ai/kythera-city-octree-console.png)

## Kythera AI Inspector tool (behavior trees and debug draw)

The [Kythera AI Inspector](/docs/user-guide/gems/reference/kythera-ai/introduction-to-the-inspector) is a web-based tool that allows you to author behavior trees (BTs) and access advanced debug draw features. To launch the Kythera AI Inspector, click on the **Launch Inspector** icon in the Kythera Toolbar.

By default, the Inspector will show the blackboard view, where you can debug existing blackboard values, and enable or disable the debug draw options.

![The blackboard view in the Kythera AI Inspector](/images/learning-guide/tutorials/ai/kythera-city-inspector-bbview.png)

To enable debug draw, expand Console Variables or drag it to the side to create a new tab.
Set console variable `Draw Master` to 1 and collapse console variables.

Expand `debug options`, here you can disable/enable various specific debug draw features.

To view the behavior trees, click on BT Editor at the top of the page and select a behavior tree name to edit.

> Make sure the Open3D game or editor isn't playing or simulating while editing the behavior trees.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make sure that the game or **O3DE Editor** isn't playing or simulating while editing the behavior trees.
```
* Be sure to use "O3DE" on subsequent reference.
* "O3DE Editor" in bold on first reference to this tool, per the [terminology guidelines](https://docs.o3de.org/docs/contributing/to-docs/terminology/).

![](/images/learning-guide/tutorials/ai/kythera-city-inspector-bteditor.png)

Alternatively, you can view the behavior in live mode, go to:

1. In the top menu bar choose the `Live` tab, then the `Behavior trees` tab below it

> 2. Simulate or play the level in the Open3D editor. The Inspector will show `Kythera is active`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Simulate or play the level in O3DE Editor. The Inspector shows `Kythera is active`.
```

3. Find an entity in the dropdown menu to see which behavior tree is in use.
4. Click the `Live` button to the right of the dropdown menu to view the behavior tree in real time

## 2D pathfinding

![A 2D Kythera AI agent](/images/learning-guide/tutorials/ai/kythera-city-robot.png)

2D Navigation is demonstrated by the `Robot.prefab`. The robots use the behavior `2DRandomWalk`, which chooses a random point in a specified range, then finds and follows a path to that point.

> When duplicating or moving entities, be sure to select the top (shaded tab) of the prefab in the Entity Outliner, to prevent detached objects in the level.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When duplicating or moving entities, to prevent detached objects in the level, be sure to select the top (shaded tab) of the prefab in the Entity Outliner.
```
Re-ordered to emphasize the purpose of the action first.

The `KytRobot` entity in the prefab has the following components, which are required for 2D navigation:

*   `Kythera`
*   `PhysX Character Controller`, set to be consistent with `navmesh.xml`
*   `Agent`, set to use the profile `RandomWalk`
*   `SimpleMovementController`

> The `RandomWalk` profile can be found in `KytheraAIDemo/Scripts/Profiles.xml`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can find the `RandomWalk` profile in `KytheraAIDemo/Scripts/Profiles.xml`:
```
Passive voice fix

```xml
<RandomWalk id="140" inheritanceParent="100" type="bb">
  <DefaultBehavior type="string">2DRandomWalk</DefaultBehavior>
</RandomWalk>
```
The `DefaultBehavior` name must match the behavior name set in the inspector.

## 3D pathfinding

![A 3D Kythera AI agent](/images/learning-guide/tutorials/ai/kythera-city-spaceship.png)

> 3D Pathfinding is demonstrated by KytSpacship entities within the level.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
KytSpacship entities within the level demonstrate 3D pathfinding.
```
* Passive voice fix
* Lower case "pathfinding" (common noun)

> The `KytSpaceship` entities use the behavior tree `3DGoToRandomEntityTag`, which searches for a random entity with a Kythera AI tag of `Kyt_Point_of_interest`, then finds and follows a path to that entity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `KytSpaceship` entities use the behavior tree `3DGoToRandomEntityTag`. This behavior tree searches for a random entity with a Kythera AI tag of `Kyt_Point_of_interest`, then finds and follows a path to that entity.
```
Suggested sentence break (long sentence)

You can find the `Kythera3D_Point_of_Interest_Tagged` entities in the outliner, which contains a `Kythera` component with an added tag of `Kyt_Point_of_interest`.

!["Point of interest" entity in the Entity Outliner](/images/learning-guide/tutorials/ai/kythera-city-point-of-interest.png)

The octree must be built and present in the level for 3D navigation behavior tree nodes to work.

The `KytSpaceship` entity has the following components, which are required for 3D navigation:

*   `Kythera`
*   `PhysX Collider`, set to the convex shape of the ship
*   `Agent`, set to use the profile `GoToRandomEntityProfile`

> *   `FlightMovementController`, which can be configured to change the speed and acceleration of the ships

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*   `FlightMovementController`, which you can configure to change the speed and acceleration of the ships
```
Passive voice fix

*   `PhysX Rigid Body` (required by the movement controller)

> The profile `GoToRandomEntityProfile` can be found in `KytheraAIDemo/Scripts/Profiles.xml`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can find the profile `GoToRandomEntityProfile` in `KytheraAIDemo/Scripts/Profiles.xml`.
```
Passive voice fix

```xml
<GoToRandomEntityProfile id="210" inheritanceParent="200" type="bb">
  <DefaultBehavior type="string">3DGoToRandomEntityTag</DefaultBehavior>
</GoToRandomEntityProfile>
```
The `DefaultBehavior` name must match the behavior name set in the inspector.

## 3D splines and orientation

![A 3D Kythera AI agent following a navigation spline](/images/learning-guide/tutorials/ai/kythera-city-spaceship.png)

> 3D splines are demonstrated using a few entities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The level demonstrates 3D splines using a few entities.
```
Passive voice fix; confirm that "the level" is accurate as the subject of the sentence.

![Navigation Spline component dialog](/images/learning-guide/tutorials/ai/kythera-city-spline-dialog.png)

> The level contains couple of `Kyt_Spline` actor entities which are set up with a `Navigation Spline` component. The parameters of this component change the physics behavior of agents flying the spline.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The level contains a couple of `Kyt_Spline` actor entities that are set up with a `Navigation Spline` component. The parameters of this component change the physics behavior of agents flying the spline.
```
* Typo fix ("contains couple of")
* "which" to "that"
